         # Text-Analysis---Junior-Data-Analyst-Job-Descriptions
         
         Overview:
This project involves the use of the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) to analyze text data. The goal of this project is to explore and analyze a large corpus of text data to gain insights and understand patterns in the data.

Requirements:
To run this project, you will need to have Python 3 installed on your computer along with the following packages:

NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit)
Pandas
Matplotlib
Installation:
To install the required packages, you can use pip, a package installer for Python. Run the following commands in your terminal or command prompt:

pip install nltk
pip install pandas
pip install matplotlib

Data:
The text data used in this project was scrapped from indeed website and saved to excel file, and saved in a directory within the project folder.

Project Structure:

The main code file is named 'text_analysis.py'.
The project folder also includes a 'data' folder where the text data is saved.
The 'output' folder contains the output generated by the code.
Execution:
To run the code, navigate to the project folder in the terminal or command prompt and run the following command:

python text_analysis.py

This will execute the code and generate the output in the 'output' folder.

Functionality:
The text_analysis_SA_jobs.py file contains the following functions:

tokenize_text: Tokenizes the text data into individual words and removes stopwords and punctuations.
plot_word_frequency: Plots a bar graph of the most frequently occurring words in the text data.
plot_wordcloud: Plots a word cloud of the most frequently occurring words in the text data.

Conclusion:
This project is a basic demonstration of how to use NLTK for text analysis. It can be further extended to include more advanced techniques such as sentiment analysis, topic modeling, named entity recognition, and text classification.
